hello I'm Seth Meyers and I cannot thank
you enough for having me tonight let me
just say top that this evening I'm going
to be making a lot of jokes about many
of the people in this room but don't
worry I assure you no matter how harsh
the jokes
they've all been vetted by the man at
the top Chinese president who Jintao
truthfully I'm humbled to be sitting at
a table with President Obama a man I
greatly admire it's such an honor to
perform for the leader of the world's
most powerful / poorest country
and before I start these were my birth
certificate jokes so thank you for the
timing on that mr. president
now unusable we were working on these
jokes for months one of my guys said are
you worried were a little heavy on birth
certificate jokes what if he releases it
before the dinner and I was like why
would he do that he's not going to wait
three years and then release it before
the dinner who told you I had birth
certificate jokes
it was Assange wasn't it
[Applause]
is Biden still vice-president because if
not I'm down to like thank you and God
bless america
[Music]
[Applause]
now I can begin it's an I am also
honored to be performing for those of
you here tonight as well as the handful
of people watching at home on c-span
c-span is of course the official Network
for wide shots of empty chairs every
time I tune into c-span it looks like
they just had a fire drill c-span is one
unpaid electric bill away from being a
radio station
[Applause]
people think bin Laden is hiding in the
Hindu Kush but did you know that every
day from 4:00 to 5:00 he hosts a show on
c-span
[Applause]
I'm not complaining about c-span mind
you I usually work on NBC so tonight I'm
thrilled to be on a network that people
actually watch in fact the fact that I
projected on four screens right now
makes me the third highest rated show on
NBC
Comcast of course bought NBC this year
I'm assuming by accident or when Goldman
Sachs cut up the network and bundled it
in the lower tranche of a CDO I figured
this was the only room that joke would
work and it only kinda did it won't be
joining me on the road it's so amazing
to be in Washington DC all this history
all these amazing buildings and yet here
we are at the Hilton
the red carpet outside was amazing who
are you wearing what does it matter I'm
going into a Hilton
don't get me wrong I'm very happy they
were at the Hilton because no matter how
I do tonight I'm earning Hilton honors
points you may not like these jokes but
I'll be laughing all the way to a free
breakfast
for those of you who don't know the
White House Correspondents Association
is an organization of journalists who
cover both the White House and the
president though earlier Senator John
Kyle told me 90% of what they do is
abortions
[Applause]
but tonight is not about our political
differences tonight is really about the
after parties I keep hearing how
everyone is excited to go to the
bloomberg party you know how I know I'm
not in New York in New York no one is
excited to go to a bloomberg party
in New York at Bloomberg Party is five
people smoking outside a bar complaining
about Bloomberg
I of course I'm contractually obligated
to attend the MSNBC party tonight
everyone knows how the MSNBC party works
President Obama makes the kool-aid and
everyone there drinks it
too close to my home there are actually
some unscheduled parties happening
tonight I've been asked to give everyone
a rundown Fox News is having a party
security is tough so make sure you bring
your driver's license and your long form
driver's license but if you're blond
don't worry about it just bring that
dynomite smile
the New York Times party used to be free
but tonight apparently there's a cover
so like everyone else I'll probably just
go to The Huffington Post party and how
many pumps parties asking people go to
other parties first and just steal food
and drinks and bring it from there
go get me wrong I love Ariana Huffington
especially her voice she sounds like a
woman who would be sitting up in bed
with a sheep wrapped around her as James
Bond is walking out the door will I see
you again James
[Laughter]
andrew breitbart after-party is going to
be crazy I mean it won't be good but
it'll be crazy
sidenote I actually met James O'Keefe
last night at least I think it was James
O'Keefe it may have just been a regular
pimp who hated organized labor NPR is
having a party but I'm sure we pretty
sedate how while can a party get when
it's held in accordance with Sharia law
it's what I was told this has been a
year of sweeping changes happening TV
news Katie Couric announced she is
leaving CBS Katie was known best for
asking those tough questions like name a
newspaper
years of hard-hitting questions and
she's going to be remembered for the one
that could have doubled as a category on
the Family Feud follow-up question
name something you keep in your attic
katie is just one of the many departures
we've seen this year NPR fired Juan
Williams after he said Muslims make him
nervous so one is black and afraid of
Muslims making him the least likely man
to get a cab in New York City
[Applause]
MSNBC's keith olbermann was suspended
from a show for violating company policy
by donating money to three Democratic
campaigns still the punishment seemed
rather harsh compared to the slap on the
wrist Larry King got after giving a
buffalo nickel to the campaign of
Chester a Arthur
CNN replaced Larry King with Piers
Morgan this year it's just like that old
expression out with the old in with the
who Rick Sanchez you are gone but you
are forgotten
not everyone's leaving my friend
Anderson Cooper's still over at CNN and
I especially love watching him report
from the field you can always tell how
much danger Anderson Cooper's in by how
tight his clothing is if he's in the
bulky yellow slicker than it's a
hurricane that's still offshore if he's
in the khaki vest he's maybe in the
Green Zone in Baghdad but when he's in
the child-sized white t-shirt bullets
are flying he's getting punched he's
pulling kittens out of the rubble so
what I'm saying is if you earthly
Anderson Cooper with his shirt off turn
off your television and run
MSNBC has a new slogan this year lean
forward as if the problem has been that
we couldn't hear them
lean forward have you seen hardball
Chris Matthews yells like an auctioneer
in a wind tunnel I've never watched
hardball and thought I need to get a
little closer to this now more than ever
it's clear that media is changing news
outlets are adapting to an online world
even Bloomberg News is on Twitter with
an impressive 220 thousand followers so
only 20,000 less than a Cobra that
escaped from the Bronx Zoo
my friend and colleague from NBC Brian
Williams is here tonight Brian said he
was coming because tonight has the
element he most respects in an evening
cameras I'm not saying Brian loves being
on TV but when he went to Egypt it was
because he heard it was their pilot
season all joking aside I have nothing
but respect for my good friend Brian I
don't know if everyone heard about this
but Brian landed in London to cover the
Royal Wedding only to turn back around
and return to America to cover the
tornadoes in Alabama it was incredibly
brave and courageous and that is a
direct quote from Brian Williams
this isn't tonight is grown Pass
Washington and many Hollywood
celebrities are also here tonight Jon
Hamm is here yeah Jon Hamm looks the way
every Republican thinks they look Zach
Galifianakis is also here Zach
Galifianakis looks the way Republicans
think every Democrat looks since we're
talking about celebrities and reality
stars we might as well talk about the
2012 Republican candidates just look at
the options the Republicans are kicking
around Palin Huckabee Gingrich Trump
that doesn't sound like a field of
candidate that sounds like season 13 of
Dancing with the Stars and not the stars
the dancers let's start with Mitt Romney
Mitt Romney wrote a book titled no
apologies no apologies when you have to
proclaim no apologies isn't that a tacit
admission you've made a lot of mistakes
if I come home from a trip to Vegas and
the first thing I say to my girlfriend
is no apologies we're going to have a
follow-up conversation
[Applause]
both Rand Paul and Ron Paul been talking
about a run in 2012 so they have
something in common with my father and I
which is not going to get elected
president
debate between a father and son rebuttal
dad you ruin everything
simple
Valente timberlands he makes Al Gore
look like
Mike Huckabee is considering Iran Mike
Huckabee said the president was raised
in Kenya went to a Muslim school and he
hates America but despite that he still
seems like a sweet person so he sounds
less like a presidential candidate and
more like my aunt and then of course
there's Donald Trump Donald Trump has
been saying that he will run for
president as a Republican which is
surprising since I just assumed he was
running as a joke
dental Trump often appears on Fox which
is ironic because a fox often appears on
Donald Trump's head
if you're at the Washington Post table
with Trump and you can't finish your
entree don't worry the Fox will eat it
and if I can for a moment talk about the
birther issue when did we get so
suspicious about where people were born
a USA Today poll last week said 38% of
Americans think the president was
definitely born in the u.s. in the same
poll in the very same poll only 5% more
said Donald Trump was definitely born in
the US has it reached the point where
Americans only think something was hat
someone was born here if they saw it I
know I was born here and I know my
younger brother was born here but when
it comes to my older brother I can only
take him at his word
gary busey said recently the donald
trump would make a great president of
course he said the same thing about an
old rusty birdcage II found
[Laughter]
Donald Trump owns the Miss USA pageant
which is great for Republicans because
it will streamline their search for a
vice president
Donald Trump said recently has a great
relationship with the blacks though
unless the blacks are a family of white
people
I bet he's mistaken
[Applause]
I like the Trump is filthy rich but
nobody told his accent his whole life is
models and gold leaf and marble columns
but he still sounds like a know-it-all
down at the OTB mr. Trump may not be a
good choice for president but he would
definitely make a great press secretary
how much fun would that be Kim jong-il
is a loser
his latest rally was a flop I feel bad
for Ahmed did a shot he lightly never
man wears a windbreaker he has no class
I on the other hand sell my own line of
ties you can find them in Macy's in the
flammable section
so it's not a strong field and who knows
what they can beat you in 2012 but I
tell you who could definitely beat you
mr. president
2008 Barack Obama he would have loved
him so charismatic so charming was he a
little too idealistic maybe but you
would have loved him I still think we
all remember that inauguration day the
first lady was there and may I say for
as beautiful as you look that day you
look even more beautiful tonight
now you on the other hand mr. president
have aged a little what happened to you
when you were sworn in you look like the
guy from The Old Spice commercials now
you look like Louis Gossett senior
I've never said this to anyone before
but maybe you should start smoking again
is this the change you were talking
about mr. president look at your hair if
your hair gets any whiter the Tea Party
is going to endorse it
[Applause]
I'm going to get an angry voicemail from
Jenny Thomas in 19 years
but I believe the president would agree
with me that the mood has changed a bit
since the beginning of his term at the
beginning of this term mr. president
housewives were trying to sneak in the
hub into the White House not anymore now
everyone's leaving
Axelrod Gibbs Rahm Emanuel by this time
next year it'll just be you and Joe
Biden trying to find toner for the copy
machine and now your reelection campaign
has begun I bet it's hard getting back
in campaign mode again you know who's
really dreading it will I am he's
writing down words that rhyme with debt
ceiling
the Heritage Foundation projected that
vote joke would get a standing ovation
Polly shouldn't trust those going but
mr. president I truly still have
confidence you for one you still have
the first lady and of course you still
have Joe Biden what can I say about Joe
Biden that hasn't already been said
incorrectly by Joe Biden I imagine
having Joe Biden as vice president is
kind of like taking your blue-collar dad
to a fancy restaurant he's more
comfortable at the Olive Garden he talks
a little too loud he mispronounces the
sauces and you're always tempted to lean
over to the waiter and say I'm sorry
about him he's from Scranton
the President Joe Biden were not invited
to the royal wedding and when Biden
found out he immediately said to the
president
you mean wedding crashers - I'll book us
two Amtrak tickets to London
[Laughter]
the vice president loves train he loves
the trains that I assume it must have
been hard for the president to tell
Biden the new budget cut 1.5 billion
from high-speed rail Joe come on and
take off your engineers cap I have some
bad news about the Choo choos
as he broke the news one of the straps
and chose overall sadly drooped off his
shoulder on the subject of budgets I
would be remiss not to mention Paul Ryan
Paul Ryan introduced a budget plan that
would overhaul Medicare and make deep
cuts to other social and healthcare
programs because he believes the
American people have said loud and clear
stop using my tax dollars to take care
of me I noticed that his approach to the
budget led many to praise Paul Ryan as a
serious adult and I have to say nothing
is more depressing about politics than
the fact that adult is now a compliment
adult is only a compliment to a child
I'm so proud of you
you acted like an adult tonight I'm glad
I brought you to my boss's house for
dinner you even cut your own meat like a
big boy also Congress there are a lot of
things you want us to be impressed by
that we are not impressed by we are not
impressed that you sat next to each
other at the State of the Union you know
what the rest of Americans call an
evening spent politely sitting next to a
person with wildly different political
views Thanksgiving
we're not impressed when you complain
about how bills are too long to read the
health care bill is almost 2,000 pages
good a bill - that - that ensures every
person in American should be longer than
the girl with the Dragon Tattoo also
while we're at it I don't think you read
bills anyways I think you guys vote on
bills in the same way the rest of us
agree - updated terms and conditions on
iTunes
well I should wrap it up I'm getting the
red light not the red light that signals
I'm out of time but the red light that
signals the c-span handycam is running
low on batteries in all seriousness I
want to thank all of the journalists
here tonight I couldn't do my job if you
didn't do yours and it's fitting that
this event happened on the same weekend
as a Royal Wedding because as I was
watching the festivities I couldn't help
thinking how wonderful it is to live in
a country where people don't wear hats
like that
tonight has truly been an incredible
honor for me America is the greatest
country on Earth and at least when my
speech started was still a nation rated
triple-a by Standard & Poor's thank you
and good night
[Applause]